.TH bincimap-up 1
.SH "NAME"
bincimap-up \- Authentication stub for Binc IMAP

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B bincimap-up [ options... ] -- <authenticator> bincimapd

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

For more information about Binc IMAP, see the
.B bincimapd
man pages.

To configure this stub, use either command line arguments, config file
entries, or a
.B combination
of both. A subset of the config file options is available as command
line options.

Note that command line arguments always override config file options.

.SH "OPTIONS"

Long options are not supported on all platforms, so if you experience
problems with them, please use the short options instead.

.TP
\fB\-a, \-\-allow-plain\fR
If set, allows plain text authentication in an unencrypted (SSL/TLS)
IMAP session.

.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-auth-penalty=<n>\fR
Server will sleep for <n> seconds if the client issues a
username/password pair that fails to authenticate.

.TP
\fB\-t, \-\-auth-timeout=<n>\fR
When the server is in unauthenticated mode, and does not detect any
client activity, it will wait <n> seconds before closing (t/o) the
connection. <n> can not be less than 30 seconds.

.TP
\fB\-f, \-\-ca-file=<file>\fR
A file with one or more certificate authority certificates. It is used
to help the client verify the SSL certificate.

.TP
\fB\-P, \-\-ca-path=<path>\fR
A path used by the underlying SSL support to search for files with
certificate authorities.

.TP
\fB\-l, \-\-cipher-list=<ciphers>\fR
Sets the list of available SSL ciphers.

.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-conf=<file>\fR
Location of
.I bincimap.conf
file.

.TP
\fB\-C, \-\-create-inbox\fR
If set, server will create the default mailbox
.B INBOX
on first login if it does not exist.

.TP
\fB\-C, \-\-depot=[Maildir++|IMAPdir]\fR
Sets whether to use a Maildir++ or an IMAPdir depot. Default is
Maildir++.

.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-disable-starttls\fR
Do not advertise the STARTTLS capability. Use this when running Binc
IMAP in plain text over an already SSL encrypted tunnel. Default:
.B no.

.TP
\fB\-h, -?, \-\-help\fR
Displays basic usage.

.TP
\fB\-I, \-\-ip\-variable=<var>\fR
For logging, suggests an environment variable that contains the
remote host IP address.

.TP
\fB\-i, \-\-idle-timeout=<n>\fR
When the server is in authenticated mode, and does not detect any
client activity, it will wait <n> seconds before closing (t/o) the
connection. <n> can not be less than 1800 seconds.

.TP
\fB\-J, \-\-jail-path=<path>\fR
Which path bincimap-up should chroot to after starting bincimapd.

.TP
\fB\-K, \-\-jail-user=<userid>\fR
Which user bincimap-up should become after starting bincimapd.

.TP
\fB\-j, \-\-jail-group=<groupid>\fR
Which user bincimap-up should become after starting bincimapd.

.TP
\fB\-L, \-\-logtype=[syslog|multilog]\fR
Which method
.B Binc IMAP
should use to log.
.I syslog
means to connect to syslog.
.I multilog
means to log to stderr(2). Typically used together with
the
.I multilog
utility. For xinetd, use
.I syslog.
For daemontools/supervise, use
.I multilog. Default:
.B syslog.

.TP
\fB\-m, \-\-mailbox-path=<path>\fR
Path to mailbox relative from user's home area. Typically
.B Maildir
for Maildir mailboxes, or the empty string "" if the home area is
equivalent to the Maildir directory.

.TP
\fB\-M, \-\-mailbox-type=<type>\fR
Which type of mailbox should the server use? Currently only supports
.B Maildir.

.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-pem-file=<file>\fR
The path to the SSL certificate file, in PEM format.

.TP
\fB\-s, \-\-ssl\fR
If set,
.B Binc
will go straight into SSL server mode. If this option
is not passed,
.B Binc
will still advertise
.B STARTTLS,
allowing clients to switch to SSL on need. Use
.B \-\-ssl
if running
.B Binc
on port
.B 993.

.TP
\fB\-S, \-\-subscribe-mailboxes=<mailboxes>\fR 
If present, server will
automatically subscribe client to the given list of mailboxes on first
login. Mailbox list is given as a comma separated list with the
mailbox' full path, for example
.I INBOX,INBOX.Sent-Mail,INBOX.Trash
.

.TP
\fB\-b, \-\-transfer-buffersize=<n>\fR
The server will buffer up to <n> bytes of data before sending it off
to the client. A lower value will give smoother response from the
server, but is a bad idea for clients with a big RTT (for example
dial-ins). A high value gives better throughput, but a more bulky
transfer.

.TP
\fB\-T, \-\-transfer-timeout=<n>\fR
The server writes data to the client in bulks. Each bulk gets <n>
seconds to complete before the server times out.

.TP
\fB\-u, \-\-umask=<umask>\fR
Server will use this umask throughout session. Defaults to user's
default umask.


.TP
\fB\-V, \-\-verify-peer\fR
If set, server will attempt to verify peer certificate.

.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-version\fR
Shows Binc IMAP version.

.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
Marks the end of options to
.B bincimap-up.
After this comes the checkpassword compatible authenticator.

.TP
\fB(trailing arguments)\fR
Binc IMAP's authenticator. The first argument is invoked as an
authenticator subprocess of Binc, with the rest of the arguments
passed as the authenticator's local arguments.

.SH "EXAMPLE INVOCATION"

The following example shows how to invoke Binc IMAP using multilog,
with an example 
.B /opt
location for the conf file and using
.I checkpassword
as the authenticator. Notice that both the authentication stub and
the authenticated daemon must both have command line arguments, and that
the authenticator comes after '--'.

.RS
.nf
/opt/bincimap/bin/bincimap-up                        \\
     --conf=/opt/bincimap/etc/bincimap.conf          \\
     --                                              \\
     /bin/checkpassword                              \\
     /opt/bincimap/bin/bincimapd
.fi
.RE

You will typically invoke
.B bincimapd
from either
.I xinetd
or
.I supervise.

.SH "FILES"

All
.B Binc IMAP's
configuration files use the same
.B Binc::Storage
format. It's basically a sequence of named
.B sections
enclosed in
.B {braces},
each containing a set of comma separated
.B key=value
pairs. The
.B keys
must be alphanumeric, and the values can contain
any character if it's
.B quoted.

.TP
\fB.I bincimap.conf\fR
Global configurations file. All entries in this file can be overrun
with command line arguments.

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Andreas Aardal Hanssen

This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is
NO warranty.

.SH "NOTE"
Please report any bugs to the
.B Binc IMAP
mailing list. Before posting your bug, check out the
.B Binc IMAP
official home page for a list of mailing list archives
to browse.

.RS
.nf
Mailing list: <lists-bincimap@infeline.org>
Home page: http://www.bincimap.org/
.fi
.RE

.SH "AUTHOR"
Andreas Aardal Hanssen <bincimap@andreas.hanssen.name>

.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bincimapd(1) bincimap.conf(5) multilog(8) supervise(8) tcpserver(1) xinetd(8) xinetd.conf(5)

.B Note:
The first three man pages are available for download from
.I http://www.qmail.org/.
