.TH bincimap.conf 5
.SH "NAME"
bincimap.conf \- Global configuration file for
.B Binc IMAP

.SH "EXAMPLE"
A section of a bincimap.conf file might look something like this:

.RS
.nf
Authentication {
    allow plain auth in non ssl = "no",
    auth penalty = 4,
    disable starttls = "no"
}
.fi
.RE


.SH "INTRODUCTION"

This manual page describes the format and content of the
file
.I bincimap.conf.
First comes a summary of sections of options that users can set, then
we describe the bincimap.conf structure more in detail.

All
.B Binc IMAP's
configuration files use the same
.B Binc::Storage
format. It's basically a sequence of named
.B sections
enclosed in
.B {braces},
each containing a set of comma separated
.B key=value
pairs. The
.B keys
must be alphanumeric, and the values can contain
any character if it's
.B quoted.

.SH "SUMMARY"

Options are presented in the format
.B Section::name.
To set the option, enter the name with no quotes in the section
as described in
.B FORMAT
below.

The following options can be set in 
.I bincimap.conf.

.TP
\fBAuthentication::allow plain auth in non ssl = [yes|no] \fR
If yes, allows plain text authentication in an unencrypted (SSL/TLS)
IMAP session.

.TP
\fBAuthentication::auth penalty = <n>\fR
Server will sleep for <n> seconds if the client issues a
username/password pair that fails to authenticate.

.TP
\fBLog::environment ip variable = <var>\fR
Which environment variable bincimapd should search for the
remote host IP in.

.TP
\fBLog::syslog facility = <var>\fR
If syslog mode is used, sets the facility to log to. Default
is LOG_DAEMON. Allowed values are LOG_USER and LOG_LOCAL0-LOG_LOCAL7.

.TP
\fBLog::syslog facility number = <nr>\fR
If syslog mode is used, sets the facility number to log to. Default
is the value of LOG_DAEMON.

.TP
\fBLog::type = <type>\fR
Which method
.B Binc IMAP
should use to log.
.I syslog
means to connect to syslog.
.I multilog
means to log to stderr(2). Typically used together with
the
.I multilog
utility. For xinetd, use
.I syslog.
For daemontools/supervise, use
.I multilog.

.TP
\fBMailbox::type = <type>\fR
Which type of mailbox should the server use? By default, only supports only
.B Maildir.

.TP
\fBMailbox::depot = <type>\fR
Which type of depot should the server use? By default, supports only
.B IMAPdir
and
.B Maildir++.

.TP
\fBMailbox::path = <path>\fR
Path to depot relative from user's home area. Typically
.B Maildir
for Maildir mailboxes, or the empty string "" if the home area is
the same as the Maildir directory.

.TP
\fBMailbox::auto create inbox = [yes|no]\fR
If yes, server will create the default mailbox
.B INBOX
on first login if it does not exist.

.TP
\fBMailbox::auto subscribe mailboxes = <mailboxes>\fR
If present, server will
automatically subscribe client to the given list of mailboxes on first
login. Mailbox list is given as a comma separated list with the
mailbox' full path, for example
.I INBOX,INBOX.Sent-Mail,INBOX.Trash
.

.TP
\fBMailbox::umask = <umask>\fR
Server will use this umask throughout session. Defaults to user's
default umask.

.TP
\fBSecurity::jail path = <path>\fR
Which path bincimap-up should chroot to after starting bincimapd.

.TP
\fBSecurity::jail user = <userid>\fR
Which user bincimap-up should become after starting bincimapd.

.TP
\fBSecurity::jail group = <groupid>\fR
Which group bincimap-up should enter after starting bincimapd.

.TP
\fBSecurity::version in greeting = [yes|no]\fR
When set to "yes", Binc IMAP will display its version number in the
greeting displayed to clients when they connect; otherwise no version
number is displayed. This version number is useful for debugging and
identifying the service, but it is also useful for malicious users who
wish to identify versions to exploit known security holes.

.TP
\fBSession::idle timeout = <n>\fR
When the server is in authenticated mode, and does not detect any
client activity, it will wait <n> seconds before closing (t/o) the
connection. <n> can not be less than 1800 seconds.

.TP
\fBSession::auth timeout = <n>\fR
When the server is in unauthenticated mode, and does not detect any
client activity, it will wait <n> seconds before closing (t/o) the
connection. <n> can not be less than 30 seconds.

.TP
\fBSession::transfer timeout = <n>\fR
The server writes data to the client in bulks. Each bulk gets <n>
seconds to complete before the server times out.

.TP
\fBSession::transfer buffer size = <n>\fR
The server will buffer up to <n> bytes of data before sending it off
to the client. A lower value will give smoother response from the
server, but is a bad idea for clients with a big RTT (for example
dial-ins). A high value gives better throughput, but a more bulky
transfer.

.TP
\fBSSL::pem file = <file>\fR
The path to the SSL certificate file, in PEM format.

.TP
\fBSSL::ca file = <file>\fR
A file with one or more certificate authority certificates. It is used
to help the client verify the SSL certificate.

.TP
\fBSSL::ca path = <path>\fR
A path with lists of certificate authorities' cerficates. It is used
to help the client verify the SSL certificate.

.TP
\fBSSL::cipher list = <cipherlist>\fR
Sets the list of available SSL ciphers.

.TP
\fBSSL::verify peer = [yes|no]\fR
If yes, server will attempt to verify peer certificate.

.SH "FORMAT"

This file format is named
.B Binc::Storage,
after its C++ class name.

The file starts with an optional list of aliases. These aliases start
with a question mark '?', followed by the alias, a colon ':', the
replacement text, and finally a semicolon ';'. This example defines
the alias "m" to represent the text "myfirstsection":

.RS
.nf
?m:MyFirstSection;
.fi
.RE

A section starts with an identifier, or a name. The name contains only
alphanumeric characters, and it's case sensitive. The section itself
is enclosed in braces.

.RS
.nf
MyFirstSection {

}
.fi
.RE

Inside a section, we have a comma separated list of
.B key=value
pairs. The key consists of a sequence of one or more alphanumeric
words. The value can also contain quoted strings.

.RS
.nf
MyFirstSection {
  certificate path = "/etc/path/certificate.txt",
  optional argument = "yes"
}
.fi
.RE

The
.B aliases
that we could define at the start of the
.B bincimap.conf
file are useful if we wish to abbreviate long words in a key
or section name, to save space. Normally this is only used
in generated files, but they can also make a manually edited
conf file more compact:

.RS
.nf
m {
  certificate path = "/etc/path/certificate.txt",
  optional argument = "yes"
}
.fi
.RE

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Andreas Aardal Hanssen

This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is
NO warranty.

.SH "NOTE"
Please report any bugs to the
.B Binc IMAP
mailing list. Before posting your bug, check out the
.B Binc IMAP
official home page for a list of mailing list archives
to browse.

.RS
.nf
Mailing list: <lists-bincimap@infeline.org>
Home page: http://www.bincimap.org/
.fi
.RE

.SH "AUTHOR"
Andreas Aardal Hanssen <bincimap@andreas.hanssen.name>

.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bincimapd(1) bincimap.conf(5) multilog(8) supervise(8) tcpserver(1) xinetd(8) xinetd.conf(5)
