.TH bincimapd 1
.SH "NAME"
bincimapd \- IMAP4rev1 server

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B bincimap-up [ options... ] -- <authenticator> bincimapd

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B Binc IMAP
is a simple
.B xinetd
/
.B tcpserver
invoked IMAP4rev1 server with support for
.B Maildir.
It is very easy to install and use.

To configure
.B Binc IMAP,
use either command line arguments, configuration file
entries, or a
.B combination
of both.

Note that command line arguments always override config file options.

.SH "OPTIONS"

Command line arguments are optional. The default behavior is to
inherit options from bincimap-up through the environment. Passing
arguments to bincimapd will override settings inherited from
bincimap-up.

For a complete listing of options for bincimapd, see the bincimap-up
man page.

Local options are read through the file .bincimap, located at the
current working directory that bincimapd is invoked in, before it
enters the depository path.

.SH "FILES"

All
.B Binc IMAP's
configuration files use the same
.B Binc::Storage
format. It's basically a sequence of named
.B sections
enclosed in
.B {braces},
each containing a set of comma separated
.B key=value
pairs. The
.B keys
must be alphanumeric, and the values can contain
any character if it's
.B quoted.

.TP
.I $HOME/.bincimap
Local configurations file. This file has a similar structure to the
global
.I bincimap.conf
file, and it can be set by each user to override both command line
arguments and the global configuration. It only works for a few
selected options, though.

.TP
.I $HOME/<maildepot>/.../bincimap-uidvalidity
This file contains a version number, and the
.B UIDNEXT
and
.B UIDVALIDITY
values for the given mailbox.

.TP
.I $HOME/<maildepot>/.../bincimap-cache
This file contains a version number, and it stores the
.B UID
values for each message, along with (optionally) some cached
information.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT"

bincimapd reads its configuration from the environment, as passed by
bincimap-up. In addition, bincimapd reads the variable
.B BINCIMAP_LOGIN
which contains a message from bincimap-up with the tag and command
used to authenticate, separated by a +. If the tag and command used
to authenticate were "1 LOGIN", then
.B BINCIMAP_LOGIN
would be set to "LOGIN+1".

Note that it is essential that the authenticator invoked by
bincimap-up does not clear the environment.

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2002-2004 Andreas Aardal Hanssen

This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is
NO warranty.

.SH "NOTE"
Please report any bugs to the
.B Binc IMAP
mailing list. Before posting your bug, check out the
.B Binc IMAP
official home page for a list of mailing list archives
to browse.

.RS
.nf
Mailing list: <binc@bincimap.org>
Developers' mailing list: <binc-dev@bincimap.org>
Announcements list: <binc-news@bincimap.org>

Subscribing to a mailing list: <binc-subscribe@bincimap.org>
Home page: http://www.bincimap.org/
.fi
.RE

.SH "AUTHOR"
Andreas Aardal Hanssen <andreas-binc@bincimap.org>

.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
multilog(8) supervise(8) tcpserver(1) bincimapd.conf(5) bincimap-up(1) xinetd(8) xinetd.conf(5)

.B Note:
The first three man pages are available for download from
.I http://www.qmail.org/.
